# Localization of TartanAir Dataset using ORB-SLAM3 and GTSAM

This is the repository for WN23 ROB 530 Team 10's Final Project.  In this project, we used ORB-SLAM3 and factor graph method (iSAM2) in GTSAM library to perform localization on TartanAir dataset. We first pre-process the input images by generating the correct camera setting files for the stereo camera method, where it takes both left and right images as inputs for ORB-SLAM3 trajectory estimation. Subsequently, visual odometry is generated by processing the optical flow files, which are the projects of the three-dimensional image motion of objects relative to a visual sensor onto its image plane, included in the TartanAir dataset. Finally, estimated trajectory from ORB-SLAM3 and odometry are fused by using GTSAM library to generate final localization result.

## Table of Contents
- [Localization of TartanAir Dataset using ORB-SLAM3 and GTSAM](#Localization-of-TartanAir-Dataset-using-ORB-SLAM3-and-GTSAM)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Background](#background)
    - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Results](#results)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Dataset Preparation](#dataset-preparation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Authors](#authors)
  - [Citation](#citation)
  
## Background

This project focuses on the use of ORB-SLAM3 and factor graph method (iSAM2) from GTSAM in order to perform localization on the abandoned factory trajectory of TartanAir dataset. In order to perform this, the image sequence is preprocessed using OpenCV and passed onto ORB-SLAM3 to generate an estimated trajectory. The estimated trajectory is optimized in smoothing and mapping using visual odometry collected from the dense optical flow provided by the dataset through GTSAM library to generate final localization trajectory.

### Overview


